Here’s a 5-sprint plan (2–3 weeks each) that gets you to a working MVP of the ETF and ETF-flow strategies first—focusing on signal logic, backtest, and analytics—then peels off the API/service work in a final “scale” sprint.

Sprint 1: Core Data & Framework Foundations
Goal: Stand up your repo structure, ingestion scripts, data models, and the bare-bones signal framework so you can plug in your first signals without any microservices or APIs.

Tasks:

Project scaffolding

Monorepo with modules: data_ingest/, data_model/, signals/, backtest/, analytics/, config/.

BaseSignal abstract class & project-wide config loader (YAML).

Offline data ingestion

Scripts to pull/download historical ETF holdings (CSV/Parquet) and price history for Russell 3000.

Normalize & write “clean” Parquet tables: etf_holdings/DATE.parquet, prices/DATE.parquet.

Local TimeSeriesProvider stub

A class that reads Parquet, aligns dates, and hands back a DataFrame.

Write basic unit tests to confirm it returns correct shapes.

Deliverable:

Repo with ingest scripts, cleaned data snapshots, and a stubbed TSProvider you can import in your signal code.

Sprint 2: ETF-Flow Signal Implementation
Goal: Build, test, and validate your ETFFlowSignal end-to-end—no API or microservice yet, just pure-Python compute.

Tasks:

Implement ETFFlowSignal(BaseSignal)

Six-month AUM delta / market-cap logic

Sector‐neutral decile ranking, +1/–1 equal-weight output.

Unit‐tests / Synthetic data

Create small toy DataFrames to confirm ranking, weighting, and neutrality.

Integrate into pipeline

Hook ETFFlowSignal into a simple signal‐processor script:

bash
Copy
Edit
python run_signal.py --signal ETFFlow --start 2015-01 --end 2020-12
Outputs a file signals/etfflow.parquet.

Deliverable:

Fully tested ETFFlowSignal class and standalone runner that emits a signal series.

Sprint 3: Basic Backtester & Portfolio Construction
Goal: Wire your ETFFlowSignal into a backtest engine, generate returns, and sanity-check performance.

Tasks:

Backtester skeleton

Daily/monthly loop that:

Loads signal DataFrame

Applies target weights (±1 legs, dollar‐neutral)

Simulates PnL with fixed slippage & transaction-cost model

PortfolioConstructor

Enforce position caps, rebalancing schedule.

Smoke tests

Run a full-history backtest, inspect annualized return & turnover.

Deliverable:

A backtest report with PnL timeseries and basic metrics (Sharpe, drawdown).

Sprint 4: Performance Analytics & Reporting MVP
Goal: Build the first analytics notebooks and minimal dashboard so stakeholders can see strategy performance and decile results.

Tasks:

Analytics module

Compute: IC, annualized return, volatility, max drawdown, turnover.

Generate: cumulative return chart, decile barplots.

Jupyter notebook

Parameter controls for flow window, sector grouping.

Plots embedded with Markdown commentary.

Lightweight dashboard (optional)

Streamlit app showing PnL chart + signal heatmap.

Deliverable:

etf_flow_analysis.ipynb and a one-page Streamlit dashboard.

Sprint 5: Scale-Up & Service/API Extraction
Goal: Refactor your MVP into services and extract the DataAPI/TSProvider, so you can add more signals (and users!) without rewriting ingestion logic.

Tasks:

Extract DataAPI microservice

Wrap your Parquet reader in a simple Flask/FastAPI app with endpoints like /prices, /etf_holdings.

Refactor TSProvider to call DataAPI

Containerize

Dockerfiles for DataAPI, TSProvider, and a signal-worker image.

Update ETFFlowSignal to use injected API client

Deliverable:

Dockerized DataAPI + TSProvider + signal worker, orchestrated by Docker-Compose or Kubernetes manifest.

Why This Sequence?
You front-load the high-value signal logic and backtest so you can validate your strategy before investing in infrastructure.

You then peel off the API and service layer once the compute correctness is proven, ensuring your MVP stays lean.

With DataAPI/TSProvider in place, adding new signals (e.g. price‐momentum, fundamental models) in future sprints becomes trivial.

Feel free to adjust sprint lengths or shift tasks based on team size and priorities, but this roadmap will get you to a working ETF-flow MVP in ~8 – 10 weeks, with scalable services ready thereafter.







